# SE-

## HD/SD 6-CHANNEL

## DIGITAL VIDEO SWITCHER

# Instruction manual


## Table of Contents

- FCC COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
- WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
- WARRANTY
   - STANDARD WARRANTY
   - THREE YEAR WARRANTY
- DISPOSAL
- INTRODUCTION
   - FEATURES
   - SYSTEM DIAGRAM
- CONNECTIONS AND CONTROLS
   - CONNECTING THE SE- 2200 MAIN UNIT TO THE CONTROL PANEL
   - MAIN UNIT – FRONT PANEL
   - MAIN UNIT - REAR PANEL
      - Rear Panel Connections
   - CONTROL PANEL OVERVIEW
      - Keyboard Controls
   - MENU OPTIONS
- MULTI SCREEN MODES
- SE-2200 VIDEO LAYERS
- PICTURE IN PICTURE FUNCTION
   - PIP SETTINGS
   - PIP PRESET AND PIP PROGRAM
   - ASSIGNING A VIDEO SOURCE INPUT TO A PIP
- DSK FUNCTION
   - DSK SETTINGS
   - DSK PVW AND DSK PGM
   - ASSIGNING AN INPUT TO THE DSK PVW CHANNEL FOR KEYING
- TC-200 MODE & CG-200 OVERLAY INPUT FROM A LAPTOP
- AUDIO FUNCTION
   - OVERVIEW
   - AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO
   - AUDIO FIXED
   - AUDIO MENU OPTIONS – DE-EMBEDDING SDI OR HDMI AUDIO
   - WORKING WITH A FIXED OR SINGLE AUDIO SOURCE
   - SWITCHING BETWEEN DIFFERENT EMBEDDED AUDIO SOURCES
- HOW TO RE-CALIBRATE THE SE- 2200 T-BAR
- GPI CONNECTIONS
- SE- 2200 TALLY OUTPUTS
- DIMENSIONS


##### SPECIFICATIONS ......................................................................................................................... 36

##### SERVICE & SUPPORT ................................................................................................................... 40

**Disclaimer of Product & Services**
The information offered in this instruction manual is intended as a guide only. At all times,
Datavideo Technologies will try to give correct, complete and suitable information. However,
Datavideo Technologies cannot exclude that some information in this manual, from time to time,
may not be correct or may be incomplete. This manual may contain typing errors, omissions or
incorrect information. Datavideo Technologies always recommend that you double check the
information in this document for accuracy before making any purchase decision or using the
product. Datavideo Technologies is not responsible for any omissions or errors, or for any
subsequent loss or damage caused by using the information contained within this manual. Further
advice on the content of this manual or on the product can be obtained by contacting your local
Datavideo Office or dealer.


## FCC COMPLIANCE STATEMENT

This device complies with part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
(1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and
(2) This device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause
undesired operation.

## WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

1. Read all of these warnings and save them for later reference.
2. Follow all warnings and instructions marked on this unit.
3. Unplug this unit from the wall outlet before cleaning. Do not use liquid or aerosol
    cleaners. Use a damp cloth for cleaning.
4. Do not use this unit in or near water.
5. Do not place this unit on an unstable cart, stand, or table. The unit may fall, causing serious
    damage.
6. Slots and openings on the cabinet top, back, and bottom are provided for ventilation. To ensure
    safe and reliable operation of this unit, and to protect it from overheating, do not block or cover
    these openings. Do not place this unit on a bed, sofa, rug, or similar surface, as the ventilation
    openings on the bottom of the cabinet will be blocked. This unit should never be placed near or
    over a heat register or radiator. This unit should not be placed in a built-in installation unless
    proper ventilation is provided.
7. This product should only be operated from the type of power source indicated on the marking
    label of the AC adapter. If you are not sure of the type of power available, consult your
    Datavideo dealer or your local power company.
8. Do not allow anything to rest on the power cord. Do not locate this unit where the power cord
    will be walked on, rolled over, or otherwise stressed.
9. If an extension cord must be used with this unit, make sure that the total of the ampere ratings
    on the products plugged into the extension cord do not exceed the extension cord rating.
10. Make sure that the total amperes of all the units that are plugged into a single wall outlet do not
    exceed 15 amperes.
11. Never push objects of any kind into this unit through the cabinet ventilation slots, as they may
    touch dangerous voltage points or short out parts that could result in risk of fire or electric
    shock. Never spill liquid of any kind onto or into this unit.
12. Except as specifically explained elsewhere in this manual, do not attempt to service this product
    yourself. Opening or removing covers that are marked “Do Not Remove” may expose you to
    dangerous voltage points or other risks, and will void your warranty. Refer all service issues to
    qualified service personnel.
13. Unplug this product from the wall outlet and refer to qualified service personnel under the
    following conditions:
       a. When the power cord is damaged or frayed;
       b. When liquid has spilled into the unit;
       c. When the product has been exposed to rain or water;
       d. When the product does not operate normally under normal operating conditions. Adjust
          only those controls that are covered by the operating instructions in this manual; improper
          adjustment of other controls may result in damage to the unit and may often require
          extensive work by a qualified technician to restore the unit to normal operation;
       e. When the product has been dropped or the cabinet has been damaged;
       f. When the product exhibits a distinct change in performance, indicating a need for service.


## WARRANTY

### STANDARD WARRANTY

```
 Datavideo equipment are guaranteed against any manufacturing defects for one year from
the date of purchase.
 The original purchase invoice or other documentary evidence should be supplied at the time
of any request for repair under warranty.
 The product warranty period begins on the purchase date. If the purchase date is unknown,
the product warranty period begins on the thirtieth day after shipment from a Datavideo
office.
 Damage caused by accident, misuse, unauthorized repairs, sand, grit or water is not covered
under warranty.
 Viruses and malware infections on the computer systems are not covered under warranty.
 Any errors that are caused by unauthorized third-party software installations, which are not
required by our computer systems, are not covered under warranty.
 All mail or transportation costs including insurance are at the expense of the owner.
 All other claims of any nature are not covered.
 Cables and batteries are not covered under warranty.
 Warranty only valid in the country or region of purchase.
 Your statutory rights are not affected.
```
### THREE YEAR WARRANTY

```
 All Datavideo products purchased after July 1st, 2017 are qualified for a free two years
extension to the standard warranty, providing the product is registered with Datavideo
within 30 days of purchase.
 Certain parts with limited lifetime expectancy such as LCD panels, DVD drives, Hard Drive,
Solid State Drive, SD Card, USB Thumb Drive, Lighting, Camera module, PCIe Card are
covered for 1 year.
 The three-year warranty must be registered on Datavideo's official website or with your local
Datavideo office or one of its authorized distributors within 30 days of purchase.
```
## DISPOSAL

### For EU Customers only - WEEE Marking

This symbol on the product or on its packaging indicates that this product must not
be disposed of with your other household waste. Instead, it is your responsibility
to dispose of your waste equipment by handing it over to a designated collection
point for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. The separate
collection and recycling of your waste equipment at the time of disposal will help
to conserve natural resources and ensure that it is recycled in a manner that protects human health
and the environment. For more information about where you can drop off your waste equipment
for recycling, please contact your local city office, your household waste disposal service or the shop
where you purchased the product.

```
CE Marking is the symbol as shown on the left of this page. The letters " CE " are
the abbreviation of French phrase "Conformité Européene" which literally means
"European Conformity". The term initially used was "EC Mark" and it was officially
replaced by "CE Marking" in the Directive 93/68/EEC in 1993. "CE Marking" is now
used in all EU official documents.
```

## INTRODUCTION

The SE-2200 6 input multi-definition switcher is perfect for live production, religious worship,
meetings or conference purposes.

It is a technically smart and cost effective portable broadcast-quality switcher.

SE-2200 is a solution that comes with great features such as 6x6 SDI genlocked Matrix, Dual PIP and
built-in title overlay system that works with entry level Datavideo CG systems, or other graphics
programmes.

SE-2200 consists of 6 HD-SDI video inputs or with a combination of 4 HD-SDI and 2 HDMI inputs; all of
the inputs are re-assignable, thus it is able to adapt to your needs. One of the HDMI inputs can be
used to accept video from a PC/Laptop computer to work with built-in title overlay system such as
Datavideo's CG solutions, including CG-200.

### FEATURES

 6 input HD broadcast quality switcher
 Ideal for live production venues, religious worship, meetings or conference purposes
 Video Inputs: 6 x HD-SDI, 2 x HDMI (CH 5 & 6)
 Audio Inputs: 4 x XLR
 Configurable Video Outputs: 6x HD-SDI (Program, Aux, Multi-View)
 Multi-View Outputs: 2 x HDMI
 6x6 SDI Genlocked Matrix, Dual PIP and a built-in title creator system that works with Datavideo
CG systems, PowerPoint and other graphics programmes


### SYSTEM DIAGRAM


## CONNECTIONS AND CONTROLS

### CONNECTING THE SE- 2200 MAIN UNIT TO THE CONTROL PANEL

Use D-SUB Cable to connect SE-2200 main unit to SE- 2200 control unit.

**SE-**^2200 **Control**^ **Panel**^

```
SE- 2200 Main Unit
```
### MAIN UNIT – FRONT PANEL

The front panel on the SE- 2200 main unit has a grille for airflow cooling fans. Please do not block
or cover this grille as the unit may overheat. This grille should also be kept free of dust. The front
panel can be removed by using the four thumbscrews. A soft brush or cloth can then be used to
clean the grille before attaching it back to the unit.

The power button starts and shuts down both the SE- 2200 main unit and its attached keyboard.

```
D-Sub
Cable
```

### MAIN UNIT - REAR PANEL

1. Video Input 1~4 – HD-SDI 9. Grounding Terminal
2. Tally Output Connector 10. 4pin XLR Power Input Connector (12V)
3. Connect the SE-2200 Keyboard 11. Mini Switch 2
4. Ethernet Port for external Control (PC) 12. Service Port - Load FS file & Firmware
    Updates
5. RS-232/422 Connector & Mini Switch 1 (TBD) 13. Multi View Outputs – HDMI
6. GPI Output Connector 14. Video Output 1~6 – HD-SDI
7. 3pin XLR Audio Inputs 1~4 15. Input 6 – HD-SDI / HDMI (User Defined)
8. 3pin XLR Audio Outputs 1 / 2 16. Input 5 – HD-SDI / HDMI (User Defined)

#### Rear Panel Connections

```
Video Inputs
The SE- 2200 can be supplied with up to six video input
channels.
```
```
The SE- 2200 has six BNC input connectors and two
input HDMI ports. Input channels 5 and 6 are optionally
set up either as BNC SDI or HDMI.
```
```
Note: Please activate the SE- 2200 MENU and select
INPUT 5 AND 6 MODE to set the required input
connection.
```
```
Tally Output
The SE- 2200 Tally Output port provides bi-colour tally
information to a number of other Datavideo products,
such as the ITC- 100 eight channel talkback system or
the Datavideo TLM range of monitors.
```

**Console Port**
This 9pin D-Sub connector is used to connect the
Control Panel / Keyboard to the rear of the SE- 2200
Main Processing unit.

**Ethernet Port**
For external PC control only

**RS-232 / RS-422 Remote**
This port is not active under current firmware.

##### GPI

The GPI socket can be used for simple external control.

**_Note:_** _Please activate the SE- 2200_ **_MENU_** _and select_
**_GPI SETTINGS_** _to set up the required GPI connection._

**AUDIO Inputs**
Supports four channels XLR Balanced Audio Input for
embedding.

**AUDIO Outputs**
Supports two channels XLR Balanced Audio output.
(de-embedded audio from any of the digital video
sources)

**Grounding Terminal**
When connecting this unit to any other component,
make sure that it is properly grounded by connecting
this terminal to an appropriate point. When
connecting, use the socket and be sure to use wire with

a cross-sectional area of at least 1.0 mm^2.


**DC Input**
Connect the supplied 12V 3A PSU to this 4pin XLR
socket.
Pin 1 = GND ( - )
Pin 2 = NC
Pin 3 = NC
Pin 4 = VCC ( + )

**Mini Switch 2**
For firmware upgrades, switch both switches to the
upper position.

For Fast Start, please select lower position.

**Service Port**
This RJ45 Ethernet port is used to update the SE- 2200
firmware, or upload logos and images using the
SEConfig software.

**SDI Video Outputs**
The six BNC output connectors are user defined SDI
outputs. Each of these SDI outputs has the option to be:

1. Program
2. Program logo free
3. Program logo & titles free
4. Preview
5. Aux1, 2, 3 or 4
6. Multi screen

**_Note:_** _Please activate the SE- 2200 MENU and select_
**_OUTPUT SOURCE_** _to set the output source._

**HDMI Multi-View Outputs**
SE- 2200 Multi-view monitoring is available across two
HDMI monitors. These HDMI outputs can be used to
monitor video and audio in a number of different
configurations.

This Multi-view is supplied from the HDMI connection(s)
on the rear panel. When connected to two compatible
HDMI monitors a variety of multi-image layouts is
possible.

**_Note_** : HDMI multi-view output is 1080i. Note that both
HDMI outputs are Identical (cloned).


### CONTROL PANEL OVERVIEW

1. HDMI Multi Screen [MSCR] or Program
    [PGM]
       2. PC Control
3. Audio Fixed 4. Cross Point Video, Audio, Frame Store [FS] &
    Aux
5. Audio Follows Video 6. Menu access
7. Wipe Transition Selection 8. Function Keys F1~F
9. PIP Preview [PVW] & Program [PGM] 10. DSK Preview [PVW] & Program [PGM]
11. Logos 1 & 2 and clock selection 12. Fade to Black [FTB]
13. Speed Selection [Auto Take Transitions] 14. Wipe Function
15. CUT & AUTO TAKE 16. Mix / Dissolve Function
17. Freeze Function 18. T-Bar – Manual Transitions
19. Program row – On Air 20. Preset Row – Preview / Next source
21. Timer Function – Multi view only


#### Keyboard Controls

**Program and Preset rows**

The Program row of buttons is the active channel, this is the live output. The active channel
will appear as the Program Output. You can switch or CUT from one video source to another
directly on the Program row. You will see the multi view Program output change as you press
different keys along this top row of buttons.

The Preset row is the cued channel; this channel will appear in the Preview window. The Preset row
selection decides which input will be transitioned next when using any of the transition controls.

```
BK
Black background – the black background, for use on the
Program and Preset row.
```
##### BG

```
Background button – assigns a background colour or colour
bars for use on the Program and Preset row.
```
```
Note: Please activate the SE- 2200 MENU and select
CONSOLE SETTINGS to set the background colour.
```
##### MSCR/PGM

```
Switch HDMI outputs between Multi Screen [MSCR] view
and Program [PGM] view.
```
```
PC Control
Press this key, to allow a computer to remotely control the
SE-2200, or when using the supplied SEConfig software to
load Frame Store [FS] stills and Logos.
```
```
Audio Fixed
For more details, please see the AUDIO FIXED section.
```

```
FS – Frame Store Button
The SE- 2200 CH1~6 video channels, each of these channels
has its own Frame Store. Each of these Frame Stores can
hold one still image. This still image can be called into the
production by using the FS button located at the top left
corner of the SE- 2200 Control Panel / Keyboard. The FS
button allows the user to toggle between the still image of
the Frame Store or the live video input also connected to
that same video channel.
```
**How to choose live video input or Frame Store**

1. First press and hold down the **FS** button. The Preset row of input sources will light.
2. While still holding down the **FS** button, press the required input on the Preset row.
3. The input button will flash to confirm the Frame Store is selected.

The contents of each Frame Store are uploaded to the SE- 2200 from a PC.
The supplied SEConfig software is used to do this.
This selection will also be confirmed on the HDMI Multi-view, with the selected channel showing
the live input or frame store image.

```
AUX Source Selection
The SE-2200 has four user defined AUX SDI outputs; one or
all of these outputs can be set up as an auxiliary (AUX)
output via a menu option.
```
```
The AUX output source can be quickly selected in the
following way.
```
1. First press and hold down the **AUX** button. The Program
    row of input sources will light.
2. While still holding down the **AUX** button, press the required input on the Program row*. The
Preset row of input sources will light.
3. While still holding down the **AUX** button, press the required input on the Preset row.
4. The input button will flash to confirm the AUX source is selected.
*Repeat this for the other aux output if required.

**XPT Video**
Assigning video source, channel setting depended on your selection.

The XPT Video source can be quickly selected in the following way.

1. First press and hold down the **XPT VIDEO** button. The Program row of input sources will light.
2. While still holding down this **XPT VIDEO** button, press the required input on the Program
    row. The Preset row of input sources will light.
3. While still holding down the **XPT VIDEO** button, press the required input on the Preset row.
4. The input button will flash to confirm the video source is selected.


**XPT Audio**
Assigning audio source, channel setting depended on your selection.

The XPT Audio source can be quickly selected in the following way.

1. First press and hold down the **XPT AUDIO** button. The Program row of input sources will light.
2. While still holding down this **XPT AUDIO** button, press the required input on the Program
    row. The Preset row of input sources will light.
3. While still holding down the **XPT AUDIO** button, press the required input on the Preset row.
4. The input button will flash to confirm the audio source is selected.

```
Audio Follow Video
For more details, please see the AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO
section.
```
```
Menu Control
Press the MENU button in the SE-2200 function section to
enter the System Configuration Menu. Press the UP , DOWN ,
LEFT , and RIGHT arrow buttons to navigate the menu
options and to change values. Use the ENTER button to save
and confirm any setting that has been amended.
```
##### WIPES

```
The SE- 2200 has 17 user defined wipe buttons, and a BDR
button.
```
```
All wipes can have an optional colour border applied. The
wipe border width and colour are chosen within the menu
system.
```
```
Transitions can be performed manually using the T-Bar or
automatically by using the SPEED and AUTO TAKE buttons.
```
(^) Vertical Wipe Left to Right. (^) Vertical Wipe Right to Left.
(^) Horizontal Wipe Top to Bottom. (^) Horizontal Wipe Bottom to Top.
(^) Box Wipe from outside edges to
Centre.
(^) Box Wipe from Centre to outside
edges.


(^) Upper Left corner Wipe to Lower
Right corner
(^) Upper Right corner Wipe to Lower
Left corner
(^) Lower Left corner Wipe to Upper
Right corner
(^) Lower Right corner Wipe to Upper
Left corner
Circle Wipe from Centre to outside
edges (^)
Circle Wipe from outside edges to
Centre
Vertical Wipes from Centre to Left
and Right sides (^)
Vertical Wipes from Left and Right
sides to Centre
Horizontal Wipes from Centre to Top
and Bottom (^)
Horizontal Wipes from Top and
Bottom to Centre
(^) Diamond Wipe from Centre to
outside edges
(^) Border: Enable / Disable wipe border
**FUNCTION buttons (F1~F4)**
These function buttons are not yet active under the current
firmware.
**PIP Preview and PIP Program**
When looking at the top right corner of the SE- 2200 Control
Panel / Keyboard there are four PIP keys. These are
labelled Program and Preview. The upper PIP1 and PIP
keys relate to activating Picture In Picture images on the
Program outputs. The lower PIP1 and PIP2 keys relate to
activating Picture In Picture images on the Multi-view and
Preview outputs (as well as allowing the assigning of a PIP
source)
For more details, please see **Picture in Picture Function**.
**DSK Preview and DSK Program**
When looking at the top right corner of the SE- 2200 Control
Panel / Keyboard there are two DSK keys. These are
labelled Program and Preview. The upper DSK key relates
to activating Down Stream Keying on the Program outputs.
The lower DSK key relate to activating Down Stream Keying
on the Multi-view or Preview outputs. (as well as allowing
the assigning of the key source)
For more details, please see **DSK Function.**


##### LOGO 1 /

```
The LOGO 1 and LOGO 2 buttons are used to display pre-
selected logos on the SE- 2200 Preview and Program
outputs. When the button is active the selected logo is
shown. These logos are selected from the switcher’s
memory and positioned using a menu option.
```
**LOGO 2 or CLOCK**
The user cannot display LOGO 2 and CLOCK at the same
time. Instead use LOGO 1 and CLOCK together or use LOGO
1 and LOGO 2 together.

##### FTB

```
Fade To Black, this button fades the current video program
source to black. When pressed again it acts in reverse
from complete black to the currently selected program
video source.
```
##### SPEED

```
There are three speed buttons which can be defined by
the user. By pressing a speed button the user is choosing
the rate of transition or time taken when using the AUTO
TAKE button.
```
```
Note: Please activate the SE- 2200 MENU and select
CONSOLE SETTINGS to set up SPEED BUTTON SETTING.
```
##### WIPE

```
The WIPE button is selected when a wipe effect transition
between the selected Program and Preset sources is
required. This WIPE effect is produced by then moving
the T-Bar manually or by pressing the AUTO button.
```
##### CUT

```
This performs a simple immediate switch from the current
main source to the selected sub source. The selected
transition wipe or MIX is not used.
```
```
AUTO TAKE
This performs an automated switch from the current
program source to the selected Preview source. The selected
transition wipe or MIX will also be used. The timing of the
transition is set by the chosen Speed button.
```
##### MIX

```
Pressing this button selects a basic A/B Dissolve for the next
transition.
```

##### FREEZE

```
Freeze the program source image or return to live video
of the selected program source. Press and hold down this
button and the Preset bus will light. While pressing this
button select the desired channel to grab a still or frozen
image.
```
```
T-Bar
This performs a manually controlled transition from the
current program source to the selected Preset source. The
selected transition wipe or dissolve will be used. When
the T-Bar has travelled as far as it can go the transition
between sources is complete. The T-Bar has indicators
next to it which light when the transition is complete.
```
```
The T-Bar can be operated in one of two modes which
are chosen by a menu option.
```
##### TIMER

```
In some mixing or switching applications it is useful to
have a countdown timer. It could be that the input is a
pre-recorded video clip and you need to know when to be
ready to switch away from it.
```
This countdown timer function is only seen in the status area of the HDMI multi-view output near
the normal Clock function. The timer can be selected for one input channel, several channels or
all channels.

When the TIMER button is active and the user switches to a selected input channel the countdown
starts on the HDMI multi-view.

The value of the countdown is set in Minutes and Seconds (MM:SS). A maximum countdown of
sixty minutes [60:00] is possible. However, the initial default is 15 seconds [00:15].

When the countdown reaches zero, the user must then switch or transition to another input
channel.

**The switcher will not automatically change** to the selected Preset source at the end of the
countdown.

**How to set up the TIMER Countdown Settings**

**1.** On the switcher’s keyboard, select the video source to be set up for TIMER on the **PRESET** row.
**2.** Press the **MENU** key and select the **ON PREVIEW SETTING** to find the **COUNT DOWN SETTING**.
**3. Count Down is on** can be switched ON or OFF.
**4. Count Down Value** can be set to the required length of time in Minutes and Seconds [MM:SS].


**5.** Press the **ENTER** key to save your chosen settings, and then exit the **MENU** Mode.
**6.** Press the **TIMER** key so it is on and then transition to the chosen PRESET channel. The
    countdown will start in the status area near the clock function.
**7.** Select the next source that needs to be set up for countdown timer on the PRESET row by
    following steps 2 to 6.
**Note:** The Count Down will only start if the selected Preset and Program sources are different. The
Count Down will not start if Program and Preset sources are both set for the same input.

### MENU OPTIONS

```
When the ENTER button is pressed the Main Menu list is displayed on the
HDMI 1 Multi-view output.
```
```
This section covers the Menu options in the order that they appear on the
SE- 2200 HDMI 1 Multi-view. These settings may also appear in more detail
elsewhere in this instruction manual. Options may vary depending on the
firmware version in use.
```
```
Once the chosen setting has been confirmed with the ENTER button it
is stored within the switchers non-volatile memory.
```
**_* The following menu table applies when the switcher is in HD 1080i mode._**
Version No Where xx.xx is the version number
1 Mode (Video Format) 1080i or 720P

```
2 On Preview settings
```
```
Video input adjustment
```
```
Brightness Range 072 to 184
Contrast Range 36 to 92
Saturation Range 36 to 92
Apeture 0~
Y-C Delay 0~
Set to Nominal Reset to default values
Audio input adjustment LevelSet to Nominal^ - Tick to reset 60 ~ +^
```
```
Count Down Settings
```
```
Count Down is on See Timer section 15. on page
```
```
Count Down Value
```
```
Value is set in minutes
and seconds [MM:SS]
Default 15 sec or 00:
Max 1 hour or 60:
```
```
3 Inputs 5 and 6 mode
```
```
Input 5 SDIHDMI^ Tick Tick and enter to selectand enter to select^
```
```
Input 6 HDMI Color Mode
```
```
RGB
YUV 422 Tick to select
YUV 444
TC-200 mode
```

```
4 Output Sources Output 1~
```
```
User has a choice of:
Program
Program Logo Free
Program Logo & DSK Free
Preview
Aux 1~
Multi Screen
5 Aux Selection Aux 1~4 Inputs 1~
```
```
6 Audio Settings
```
```
Dynamic Range (dB) 18 or 24
Audio Crosspoints Input 1~6 Value 1~
SDI de-embed Audio Input 1~6 Group 1~4 & Pair 1 or 2
HDMI de-embed Audio Input 5 or Input 6 Pair 1, 2, 3 or 4
Audio re-embed setup Output 1~6 Pair 1, 2, 3 or 4
Audio Mixing Type X type or Y Type Tick to select
```
```
7 PIP Settings PIP 1PIP 2^
```
```
Horizontal Position 000~
Vertical Position 000~
Window size 01~
Border Width 00~
Border Color 01~
```
```
8 Logo Settings Logo 1Logo 2^
```
```
Logo Selection 1~
Horizontal Position 000~
Vertical Position 000~
```
```
9 Clock Settings
```
```
Horizontal Position 000~
Vertical Position 000~
Set Hours 00~
Set Minutes 00~
Clear seconds
```
10 DSK Settings

```
DSK
Luma Key Mode See DSK section
Luma Key Level
```
11 Wipe Border Settings Wipe 1~17 WidthColor 0~41~^

12 Multi Screen Setup

```
Multi Screen Mode Variant A/ B/ C See Multi Screen mode section below
Multi Screen Audio setup Preview/ Program Audio
Audio Level Indicator ON/ OFF
```
13 Console Settings

```
T-Bar Audio Mixing Type Follow T-Bar / By the END
T-Bar Mode One way mode / Two way mode
Speed Button Setting Speed 1/ 2/ 3 4 ~ 64 Frames
BG Button Color 1 ~ 9 where 9 = colour bars
Button Settings BrightnessBacklight is on^ 000 ~ 004On/ Off
1KHz to Bars On/ Off
```
14 GPI Settings

```
Input Select 0 ~ 6Channel 1~6 0=GPI function disabled^
```
```
Time Delay
Mode
```
```
01 ~ 75
Delay time can be set between 1 ~ 75 frames
Level
Pulse
```
15 Remote Control

```
Ethernet
Tick to select
DVIP Board
```
16 Factory Settings Tick selection to enable – Reset all menu settings to factory default values


## MULTI SCREEN MODES

The SE- 2200 HDMI Multi view outputs can be
configured using menu option **12. Multi Screen
Setup.**

Three Multi Screen layouts are available, variant
A, B or C.

This Multi Screen output can also be assigned to
any of the six SDI outputs using menu option **4.
Output Sources**.

```
Multi Screen - Variant A
```
```
Multi Screen - Variant B Multi Screen - Variant C
```
(^)


## SE-2200 VIDEO LAYERS

The SE- 2200 is a Standard Definition or High Definition Digital Video Switcher and as well as mixing
video and audio sources it has additional functions such as Picture in Picture (PIP), DSK LUMA KEY and
LOGOs.

Before attempting to use the SE-2200’s PIP, DSK LUMA KEY and LOGO functions it may help to first
understand the order of the video layers at the SE-2200 Program (PGM) outputs.

The **Background video layer** is the normal video layer when mixing and switching with the SE-2200.
It occupies the whole screen area of the Program output. This layer can be hidden or part hidden by
the PIP, DSK and LOGO layers in front of it.

The **PIP 1 layer** does not occupy the whole screen and is shown in front of the Background video layer
when enabled. In some setups the PIP 1 image can be hidden behind the PIP 2 image. This is not a
fault. Change the position or size of the PIP 1 or PIP 2 image if required.

The **PIP 2 layer** does not occupy the whole screen and is shown in front of the Background video
and PIP 1 layers when enabled. In some setups the PIP 1 image can hide the PIP 2 image. Change the
position or size of the PIP 2 or PIP 1 image if required.

The **DSK layer** can occupy the whole screen. If set up incorrectly this layer can stop the video layers
behind it from being seen properly. Re-adjust your DSK 1 settings or switch off the DSK1 function
on the SE- 2200 to restore the video behind it.

The **LOGO and Clock layer** does not occupy the whole screen and all other layers are visible
through it. A logo if positioned incorrectly can partially hide an important part of the video, PIP or CG
LUMA KEY layers. Typically logos or station ID bugs are placed in a corner of the screen.

**_NB:_** Where possible prepare and position the upper video layer elements in advance of the live
production starting to avoid them appearing on the program output incorrectly.

Most broadcast networks have guidelines and advice on the use of video, images, music, logos and
on screen text so it is best to check beforehand when planning a production. Do not use copyright
protected content until you have the relevant permissions. Information on royalty free video,
images and music is widely available, speak to your local dealer or search for advice on the
internet.


## PICTURE IN PICTURE FUNCTION

The SE- 2200 Picture in Picture function allows you to place one or two smaller PIP images over a
chosen full size background image. The smaller PIP images can be set to pre-defined sizes and
positioned almost anywhere within the Preset/Program screen area. These PIP windows can also
have a coloured border applied, and can be brought into the production with a default PIP dissolve
transition.

### PIP SETTINGS

Before trying to activate the PIP function it is best to understand how to set up or choose the
right options for your production. Press the **ENTER Key** in the **MENU** area of the SE- 2200
keyboard. Navigate to the **PIP Settings** option using the down arrow key. The PIP menu options
provided here are:

```
PIP Settings
```
```
PIP1
```
```
PIP2
```
```
Horizontal Position = 000 to 107 (Left to
right) Vertical Position = 000 to 108 (Lower to
Upper) Window Size = 1 (small) to 33 (large)
Border Width = 0 (OFF), 1 (Thin) to 5
(Thick)
Border Color 1 = White, 2 = Yellow, 3 = Light Blue, 4 = Green,
5 = Purple, 6 = Red, 7 = Dark Blue, 8 = Black.
```
### PIP PRESET AND PIP PROGRAM

When looking at the top right corner of the SE- 2200 Control Panel / Keyboard there are four PIP
keys. These are labelled Program and Preset.

The upper PIP1 and PIP2 keys relate to activating Picture In Picture images on the Program outputs.

The lower PIP1 and PIP2 keys relate to activating Picture In Picture images on the Multi-view or
Preview outputs.

### ASSIGNING A VIDEO SOURCE INPUT TO A PIP

Using the lower PIP1 or PIP2 PVW buttons you can assign a selected video input to the chosen PIP
video layer.

1. First press and hold down the required PIP PVW button on the lower row. The Preset row of input
    sources will light.
2. While still holding down the PIP PVW button, press to select the required video input from the
    Preset row.
3. The input button will flash to confirm it is selected.

This selection will also be confirmed on the HDMI Multi-view, with a PIP 1 or PIP 2 label shown next
to the selected input image.


4. Pressing PIP PGM will take the chosen PIP1 or PIP2 to air with a fade in transition.


## DSK FUNCTION

The SE- 2200 has two Down Stream buttons ( **DSK PGM, DSK PVW** ). This means it is able to take a key
source video input and replace the white or black parts of this image with the video from another
source. If the input video carries an alpha channel it is also possible to key in this way too.

### DSK SETTINGS

Before trying to activate the DSK function it is best to understand how to set up or choose the
right options for your production well in advance of the production.

Press the **ENTER Key** in the **MENU** area of the SE- 2200 keyboard. Navigate to the **DSK Settings**
option using the down arrow key. The DSK menu options provided here are:

```
DSK Settings Titles Mode+ Luma^ α^ Channel Key Level^ [DSK] Luma^ Key^ Luma Key Level 0 (black) to 255 (white)
```
### DSK PVW AND DSK PGM

When looking at the top right corner of the SE-2200 Control Panel / Keyboard there are two DSK
buttons. These are labelled Program and Preset.

The upper DSK PGM key relate to activating Down Stream Keying on the Program outputs.

The lower DSK PVW key relate to activating Down Stream Keying on the Multi-view or Preview
outputs.

### ASSIGNING AN INPUT TO THE DSK PVW CHANNEL FOR KEYING

Using the lower DSK PVW button you can assign a selected video input to the chosen DSK video layer.

1. First press and hold down the DSK PVW button on the lower row. The Preset row of input sources
    will light.
2. While still holding down the DSK PVW button, press to select the required input from the Preset
    row.
3. The input will flash to confirm it is selected.

This selection will also be confirmed on the HDMI Multi-view, with a DSK label shown next to the
selected input image.

4. Pressing DSK PGM will take the DSK overlay to air with a fade in transition.


## TC-200 MODE & CG-200 OVERLAY INPUT FROM A LAPTOP

The CG-200 Character Generator software allows the producer to create professional overlays with a

Windows laptop or Windows PC from which the CG-200 outputs a computer generated video stream

via an HDMI interface. This software works perfectly with the SE- 2200 ’s built-in title overlay system

**(TC-200)** if subtitles are a requirement in your production environment. **However, please note that
the following hardware restrictions may apply when using this feature.**

```
 The built-in title overlay system (TC-200) has a better compatibility performance with ATI and
Intel VGA graphics cards.
```
```
 Compatibility issue such as color difference may occur when used with NVIDIA graphics cards.
```
Visit Datavideo’s official website [http://www.datavideo.com/product/CG-](http://www.datavideo.com/product/CG-) 200 to download a free

copy of the latest CG-200 software. Then follow the steps outlined below to set up the CG- 200

Character Generator software with the SE- 2200.

1. Use the SE-2200 menu option **_Inputs 5 and 6 mode_** to change input 6 from SDI input to HDMI.
2. Use the **up arrow key** to select HDMI. A tick will appear. Press **ENTER** to save this setting.
3. Within the menu option **_Inputs 5 and 6 mode_** there is a third option for **_HDMI colour mode_** which
    should be set to **TC-200 Mode**.
4. Now use the SE-2200 menu option **_DSK Settings_** and select **DSK**
5. Connect the laptop **running the CG- 200 Windows software** to HDMI input 6 via HDMI.
6. Once the software is launched the switcher may not automatically show the extended Windows
    desktop. This is normal.
7. Use the CG- 200 **_HDMI On / Off button_** to toggle the CG overlay output On and Off.


8. Load your prepared CG-200 project and click the **playback button** on the same toolbar.
9. Pressing DSK PGM will take the DSK CG-200 overlay to air with a fade in transition.

**Note: A separate manual is also provided for help with preparing CG- 200 projects.**


## AUDIO FUNCTION

### OVERVIEW

The SE-2200 has a simple, cost effective, audio switcher built in. The SE-2200 has the ability to take
audio from several sources either XLR analogue, SDI and/or HDMI inputs. The audio can be
embedded onto the HDMI and SDI outputs and/or fed into the analogue XLR audio connections.

When using the audio functions of the SE-2200 switcher you may de-embed audio from selected SDI
or HDMI inputs and then output this audio from the XLR outputs of the switcher to a separate audio
mixer like the Datavideo AM-100 audio mixer.

Once the audio is mixed externally with any microphones or audio sources it can then be fed back
into the SE- 2200 on the analogue XLR inputs. The SE- 2200 can then embed this externally mixed
audio on to the Program SDI outputs.

**_Note:_** For a very basic audio set up , just loop the Audio outputs 1 & 2 to Audio inputs 1 & 2, using
the supplied CB-41 cable. For a more sophisticated audio processing set up, an audio mixer can be
added in the signal path as shown above. Due to its versatility many other system configurations are
possible as well.

### AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO

**AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO** function, this means that the audio source will switch with the
chosen video input, and follow the T-bar function. The active audio is de-embedded and
sent to the audio output terminals for processing and/or audio levelling/ and or adding
more audio sources. The resulting audio will return and be connected to the audio
inputs for the purpose of (re)-embedding the audio to the SDI output. The selection of the audio
groups determines the SDI channel that the audio will be embedded to exactly.

**AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO** function is primarily used in talk show or live news broadcasting. Voices of


different guests are directly collected by the corresponding cameras, thus, when the program
director switches between different guests, the video is switched at the same time with voice of
the guest during program broadcasting. This function is definitely an indispensable function during
live broadcasting.

### AUDIO FIXED

The **AUDIO FIXED** method, allows a user to manually select which audio input can be
matched to the SDI video input and assigned to the audio output terminals, which is
shown in the example below:
The table below illustrates that the sound of video input 1 is used for all individual video
inputs.

##### AUDIO CROSSPOINTS

##### INPUT 1 (BUTTON 1) 1

##### INPUT 2 (BUTTON 2) 1

##### INPUT 3 (BUTTON 3) 1

##### INPUT 4 (BUTTON 4) 1

##### INPUT 5 (BUTTON 5) 1

##### INPUT 6 (BUTTON 6) 1

The **AUDIO FIXED** function is primarily used during big (concert) events and (wedding) parties. One
camera picks up the audio of the audience and/or ambience of that video input 1, which is assigned
to be sent to the audio output. The other cameras are assigned to this same audio of video input 1.
When the operator switches between the video sources, the sound of video input 1 remains on all
the time.

### AUDIO MENU OPTIONS – DE-EMBEDDING SDI OR HDMI AUDIO

Using the following SE- 2200 menu options, audio can be selected from the SDI or HDMI video inputs.

**SDI INPUTS Embedded Audio Inputs 1 to 6** (^) User choice of **GroupPair** 1 1,2,3 or 2 or 4
**HDMI in Embedded Audio Pair Input 5 or 6** User choice of **Pair** 1,2,3 or 4
As each HD-SDI source can have up to sixteen channels of embedded audio, and HDMI eight
channels, we need to choose the audio channels with the options above and by the following
reference tables. Normal Stereo resides at channels 1 and 2.
**SDI Embedded Audio Table
Group Stereo Pair Channel**
Group 1 Pair 1

##### 1

##### 2

```
SE- 2200 Audio INPUT Channel SE- 2200 Assigned Audio Output Channel
```

```
Pair 2
```
##### 3

##### 4

```
Group 2
```
```
Pair 3
```
##### 5

##### 6

```
Pair 4
```
##### 7

##### 8

```
Group 3
```
```
Pair 5
```
##### 9

##### 10

```
Pair 6 11
12
```
```
Group 4
```
```
Pair 7
```
##### 13

##### 14

```
Pair 8
```
##### 15

##### 16

```
HDMI Embedded Audio Table
```
```
Pair Channel
```
```
Pair 1 1
2
```
```
Pair 2
```
##### 3

##### 4

```
Pair 3 5
6
```
```
Pair 4
```
##### 7

##### 8

In some cases, there may only be two channels of audio associated with the video: Pair 1.

### WORKING WITH A FIXED OR SINGLE AUDIO SOURCE

**Example 1:**
We have two mono mics (channels 1 & 2) connected to an HD camera. These embedded audio
channels are then sent from this camera along with the HD-SDI video to the SE-2200 switcher. If we
want to only hear these two audio channels regardless of the video channel used then we would set
up the switcher in the following way.

Press the **ENTER** key in the **MENU** area of the SE-2200 keyboard to display the on screen menu and
then enter **AUDIO CROSSPOINTS** of the **AUDIO SETTINGS** option.

Change the de-embedded audio setup in the menu system to show a value of 1 for each video input
channel. Press the **ENTER** key to store the audio values chosen for each video input.

Change the audio (re-)embedding setup in the switcher’s menu system to show a value of Group 1.


Press the **ENTER** key to store the audio values chosen for each video input.

Now exit the menu by pressing any wipe key.

Locate the **AUDIO FIXED** button at the top left corner of the keyboard. Enable the **AUDIO FIXED**
status by pressing the **AUDIO FIXED** button. Confirm that the **AUDIO FIXED** has been enabled by
checking the status area of the HDMI multi-view. The button will be backlit red.

### SWITCHING BETWEEN DIFFERENT EMBEDDED AUDIO SOURCES

**Example 2:**
We have two mono mics with each connected to a different HD camera. These embedded audio
channels are then sent from this camera along with the HD-SDI video to the SE-2200 switcher. If we
want to hear the audio from each camera as the video channels are switched, **audio follows video** ,
then we would set up in the following way.

Press the **ENTER** key in the **MENU** area of the SE-2200 keyboard to display the on screen menu and
then enter **AUDIO CROSSPOINTS** of the **AUDIO SETTINGS** option.

Change the **Audio Association** settings in the menu system to set input 1 audio source to 1, input 2
audio source to 2, input 3 audio source to 3 and etc. Press the **ENTER** key to store the audio values
chosen for each video input.

Change the **SDI Embedded Audio** setting in the switcher’s menu system to show a value of Group
1 and Pair 1. Press the **ENTER** key to store the audio values chosen for each video input.

Now exit the menu by pressing the menu key and locate the **AUDIO FIXED** button in the crosspoint
area of the keyboard.

Select the **AUDIO FOLLOW VIDEO** status with this button when looking at the status area of the
HDMI multi-view. The button will be off. The status area is located just below or near the Preview
image on the HDMI multi-view monitor.

When switching between the video sources the audio sources will also change. We can choose how
the audio will change sources, whether it is a clean cut (immediate switch) or some sort of
transitioned change (cross fade or fade out & in). To do this we would need to set up with the
following menu options.

```
Auto Audio Mixing Type
User choice of
X type or V type
Tick selection
```
```
X type = A/B cross fade
V type = Fade out A then fade in B
```
```
T-Bar Audio Mixing Type
Tick selection of
Follow auto audio mixing type (use above option)
By the end (clean cut or immediate audio switch)
```

## HOW TO RE-CALIBRATE THE SE- 2200 T-BAR

After a firmware update of the switcher it will be necessary to re-calibrate the T-Bar to get it working
correctly.

1. Move the **T-Bar** to its **lowest position**.
2. **Power OFF** the SE- 2200 switcher.
3. Press and hold down BK button on both the Program and Preset rows of the switcher’s
keyboard.
4. **Power ON** the SE- 2200 switcher while **still holding down the buttons** in step 3.
5. The switcher will start but the keyboard lights will remain dead except
progress LEDs. When these **LEDs flash ON and OFF** release the buttons from
step 3.
6. Move the **T-Bar to its top position** and then press the **CUT
button**.
7. Move the **T-Bar back to its lowest position** and then press the
**AUTO TAKE** button.
8. To exit the calibration procedure, press the **CLOCK button**.
9. Test the T-Bar.
If necessary change the **T-Bar Mode** in the **OSD MENU options**.


## GPI CONNECTIONS

The SE-2200 can control external recorder/playback devices like the HDR-60/70 via simple contact
closure GPI switch. The interface supports both “trigger pulse” and level “Hi/ low” system.

The GPI interface is a 3.5mm Jack Socket which is situated on the rear panel of the SE-2200. Contact
closure between the Outer and Inner contacts on the jack plug will trigger a user selected event.
Power is supplied by the SE- 2200 and is less than 5V DC.

This GPI socket can also be used as a socket to trigger record or playback events with other equipment
such as the Datavideo HDR-70 recorder.

**_SAFETY FIRST_** The cabling required needs to be designed specifically to connect the SE- 2200 to the
chosen record or playback device as they are not all the same. The cabling required can be
made by yourself or a competent technician. Please speak with your Dealer or local Datavideo
office to get further help and advice.


## SE- 2200 TALLY OUTPUTS

```
The SE- 2200 has a D-sub 25 pin female tally output
port. These connections provide bi-colour tally
information to a number of other Datavideo products,
such as the ITC- 100 eight channel talkback system and
the TLM range of LCD Monitors.
```
```
These ports are open collector ports and as such
do not provide power to tally light circuits.
```
```
Dielectric strength: Max. DC
24V Current: Max. 50mA
```
The pin outputs are defined as follows:

```
Pin No. Signal name Input/Output Description of signal
1 Program 1 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 1
2 Program 2 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 2
3 Program 3 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 3
4 Program 4 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 4
5 Program 5 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 5
6 Program 6 Open collector output Tally output of input video Program 6
13 GND Ground Ground
14 Preview 1 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 1
15 Preview 2 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 2
16 Preview 3 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 3
17 Preview 4 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 4
18 Preview 5 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 5
19 Preview 6 Open collector output Tally output of input video Preview 6
```

## DIMENSIONS


## Specifications

### Model Name SE- 2200

### Product Name HD/SD 6 - Channel Digital Video Switcher

### Video Standard HD & SD

### Video Format

```
1080i 50/59.94/60Hz
720p 50/59.94/60Hz
576i 50Hz
480i 59.94Hz
```
### Video Processing

##### SDI: 4:2:2

```
HDMI: YUV 4:2:2 10 bit, RGB: 4:4:4
```
### Input Routable /

### Crosspoint

```
All 6 , repeatable
```
### Video Input

```
6 x HD-SDI
2 x HDMI (CH5/6)
```
### Mix HD & SD Source N/A^

### Computer Graphical

### Interface

```
2 via HDMI
```
### Video Output

```
6 x SDI output assignable:
 Multiview
 Program
 Preview
 Clean Program
 AUX 1 – 4
2 x HDMI output assignable
 Multiview
 Program
```
### Down-Converted Output N/A^

### Built-in Multi-View

### Monitoring Out

```
2 x HDMI
```
### Analogue Audio Input 4 x Balanced XLR

### Analogue Audio Output 2 x Balanced XLR^

### Digital Embedded Audio

### Support

```
Input: 16 Channels
Output: 4 Channels
```
### Audio Delay Calibration N/A^

### A+V Switching Yes^

### Chromakey N/A^

### Title Creator Yes, download CG-200 software for free^

### USK N/A^

### DSK 2 x DSK supporting Lumakey & Linear key (Key / Fill)

### Picture in Picture 2


### Logo Insertion^2 (or 1 logo/1 clock)^

### Still Store^6

### Effects FTB, Cut,^8 Wipe with border^

### Transition Preview PIP & DSK

### Sync / Reference In / Out Built-in Genlock (Internal)

### Tally Output 1 x D-sub 25pin, Dual Color^

### PC Remote Control

```
Ethernet (free Windows software)
RS-422/RS- 232
```
### Built-in Audio Mixer N/A^

### Special Features

```
6x6 Matrix Seamless Switch
Built-in TC-200 CG Interface
```
### Chassis 2 units, 2RU Rack-Mount Mainframe^

### Dimensions (LxWxH)

```
433 x 312 x 76 mm (Switcher)
432 x 252 x 88 mm (Main Unit)
```
### Weight 6.1^ kg^

### Power DC 12V^32 W^

### Accessory CB-60/61/62^ / CB-46/47^

### Operating Temperature 0°C -^ 40°C [32°F -^ 104°F]^


## Notes


## Notes


Oct- 23 .20 20
Version E 7
Datavideo Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved 20 20

```
http://www.datavideo.com/product/SE- 2200
```

